Visitors stranded for TWO HOURS after Brighton's i360 broke down	"Visitors on board Brighton's new 'vertical cable car' were left stranded in mid-air for more than two hours after it broke down last night.

The i360 tourist attraction on the resort's seafront experienced a 'slight technical hitch' that 'caused the pod to halt' just 25ft into its journey, operators British Airways said.The company says it sent engineers to resolve the issue.

The i360 pod was carrying a private party, including a heavily pregnant woman, who all boarded the pod at around 5pm.

The i360 tourist attraction on Brighton's seafront experienced a 'slight technical hitch' that 'caused the pod to halt' just nine metres into its journey, operators British Airways said (Pictured: Firefighters next to the stranded pod)

Passengers on board the stranded i360 retained their sense of humour as they held scraps of paper which said 'help!'

The i360 pod was carrying a private party, including a heavily pregnant woman, who all boarded the pod at around 5pm

The tourist attraction, which opened last month, claims to be the world's first viewing platform of its kind, lifting guests 450 feet into the air for a 360-degree view of the Brighton coastline.

They had planned a reception at the nearby restaurant half an hour later, but their plans were scuppered when the ride ground to a halt.

Restaurant owner Alex, who declined to give a surname, said: 'They were stuck up there for more than two hours before they were brought back down. It was an hour and 50 minutes before the fire crew turned up, and they left about 10 minutes later.

'Members of the party told us that they were given no information from BA and were only offered water while they were stuck - but nobody wanted to drink it as there are no toilets on board the pod.'

The tourist attraction, which opened last month, claims to be the world's first viewing platform of its kind, lifting guests 450 feet into the air for a 360-degree view of the Brighton coastline

One of the party organisers, said it was an 'ironic' turn for the evening, which was planned to celebrate the i360's opening

The i360 tourist attraction on the resort's seafront experienced a 'slight technical hitch' that 'caused the pod to halt' just nine metres into its journey, operators British Airways said - they sent engineers to assess the problem

Afterwards, passenger Richard Adams tweeted 'Huge cheer as the doors open' while Kathy Taylor, another ticketholder, added: 'Now enjoying the view from solid ground.'

Tim Jones, one of the party organisers, said it was an 'ironic' turn for the evening, which had been planned to celebrate the i360's opening.

The financial advisor, 45, said: 'We weren't very high up when we juddered to a halt and we were told by staff to move to one side of the pod to 'recalibrate the weight' - which made some people a bit nervous.

'It was an interesting experience, and quite ironic as the party was organised by four local businesses who wanted to come together to celebrate the tower's opening.'

Afterwards, passenger Richard Adams tweeted 'Huge cheer as the doors open' while Kathy Taylor, another ticketholder, added: 'Now enjoying the view from solid ground'

Ordinarily the ride takes between 20-30 minutes - large queues built up on the ground by the time the pod was brought down

Ordinarily the ride from top to bottom takes between 20-30 minutes and Mr Jones said a 'massive' queue had built up on the ground by the time the pod was brought down.

He said that, while there were no injuries and all passengers were eventually brought down safely, he hoped the problem would be a learning curve for BA.

'BA have learnt a hard lesson about interacting with customers this evening,' he said.

'Only two interactions were made over the two hours and they kept pretty quiet about the free bar and the emergency toilet until we were nearly on the ground.

'We fully support the i360 and think it is a great venture for the city, so we hope they can find out what went wrong and take it from there. It's certainly given us something to talk about for the rest of the evening.'

A spokesperson for British Airways i360 said: 'British Airways i360 experienced a technical fault last night which resulted in the pod stopping for a short time.

'Our engineers worked to resolve the issue and bring the pod back down. We would like to apologise to all customers affected; we will be refunding the flights and offering them complimentary tickets to return another time. Flights are operating normally today.'"