Live: Manchester breaking news - Jet2 plane circling in skies again, latest on Rochdale baby murder probe	"Welcome to the Manchester Evening News breaking news service. Throughout the day we will be bringing you constant updates on news across the area. We’ll also be bringing you crime, travel, health, sport, politics and education stories from the M.E.N team. And the CityLife journalists are working hard to bring you the best reviews, celebrity gossip and information on going out in the city. A murder investigation has been launched after an eight-month-old child died from 'multiple injuries'. We'll bring you the latest on that tragic story soon. Police were at the scene of a reported stabbing in Openshaw late last night. We'll have an update on that incident later this morning. And today marks the 10-year anniversary of the murder of tragic schoolboy, Jessie James. His mother has made a heartfelt plea for vital information to finally bring her son’s killer to justice. If there’s something you’ve noticed and want us to check out then feel free to get in touch - call us on 0161 211 2323 or tweet @MENnewsdesk

Key Events So Far

9.47am Todd Fitzgerald Full journey the plane took The plane has landed safely back at Manchester Airport... ...here’s the journey it took. It landed just under an hour after leaving.

9.42am Todd Fitzgerald Plane has now landed at Manchester Airport We’ll bring you the latest on this incident soon...

9.39am Todd Fitzgerald Image over St Helens Scores of people have spotted the plane circling over Greater Manchester and Merseyside...

9.38am Todd Fitzgerald Video from inside the plane Sean Rooney is on the flight, he’s sent us this video... ...he says the plane is on its final approach back to Manchester Airport - and that fuel has been dumped.

9.35am Todd Fitzgerald Another image of the plane with the landing gear down It’s pretty clear from this image the landing gear is down...

9.33am Todd Fitzgerald On its way to the airport? ...it appears that way. If this image is anything to go by, courtesy of Flightradar24.com...

9.29am Todd Fitzgerald Plane seems to be on approach to Manchester It looks as though the plane is approaching Manchester...

9.26am Todd Fitzgerald Reports it IS the same plane Airlive.net is reporting that it IS the same plane... The site reads: “Jet2 flight #LS875 from Manchester to Faro is holding since departure. This Boeing 757-200 (reg.G-LSAG) already had gear issue few days ago.” I’ve put a call into Jet2 and am awaiting a response.

9.20am Todd Fitzgerald Onlooker: 'Plane has been burning fuel for last 30 minutes'

9.14am Todd Fitzgerald Déjà vu? ...certainly seems that way...

9.11am Todd Fitzgerald Is it the same plane? We’ve asked Jet2... ...we’ll soon find out.

9.07am Todd Fitzgerald Jet2 plane circling over Greater Manchester It’s happening again... A Jet2 plane is circling over Greater Manchester - two days after a similar incident. We’re just getting some information as to what’s happening. A flight was forced to circle around Manchester Airport for 90 minutes because of a technical fault on Wednesday. Jet2 flight LS819 left Manchester for Rhodes at 10.26am and was due to land at the Greek island for 4.35pm. But the aircraft reportedly experienced an issue with the landing gear and was placed in a holding pattern at 8,000ft. The Boeing 757-200 continued to circle the airport for an hour and a half burning fuel until it was light enough to land. It eventually made it to the runway just before 12.25pm after landing safely. The latest incident seems remarkably similar...

9am Todd Fitzgerald Jason Manford cancelled gig after daughter injured at dance class Comedian Jason Manford has revealed he was forced to cancel a gig in Middleton - just two hours before he was due on stage - after his daughter suffered a nasty head injury at a dance class. The Salford-born comic was due to perform to a crowd of hundreds of fans at the sold out show at Middleton Arena on Thursday night. But a spokeswoman apologised to fans in a Facebook post after he was forced to cancel the performance - two hours before the show was due to begin - due to a ‘family emergency’. The majority of fans were understanding and wished Jason the best. After he was flooded with messages of support, he took to Facebook to update fans, revealing he had had to take one of his seven-year-old twin daughters to A&E after she hurt herself at a dance class. Luckily, Jason’s daughter was not seriously injured. More here.

8.54am Todd Fitzgerald Murder investigation launched after baby death in Rochdale This is the home a baby died at in Rochdale yesterday. Police have launched a murder investigation after an eight month-old child died from ‘multiple injuries’. Officers and paramedics were called to a home in Rochdale on Tuesday morning after receiving concerned calls about the welfare of a child. Police found an eight-month baby boy with serious injuries inside the property. The child was raced to hospital but, despite the efforts of doctors, died on Thursday. Police have arrested a 25-year-old man on suspicion of murder and causing or allowing the death of a child. A 24-year-old woman has also been arrested on suspicion of causing or allowing the death of a child. We’ll have more information on this tragic incident soon.

8.36am Todd Fitzgerald Openshaw stabbing last night I’ve now had some more information from Greater Manchester Police about the incident in Openshaw last night. They’ve confirmed a man was stabbed - in the shoulder and torso - but his injuries are not thought to be life-threatening. More soon.

8.25am Todd Fitzgerald Little Hulton traffic issues Again, be wary...

8.08am Todd Fitzgerald Police called to Greater Manchester schools to deal with more than 3,000 violent incidents in five years Police have been called thousands of times to schools in Greater Manchester over recent years...and the main reason is violence. Greater Manchester Police said they had been called to the region’s schools to deal with 3,073 violent incidents in the past five years. In addition to this police were called to primary and secondary schools to investigate 400 complaints about sex offences over the same period. Officers have also dealt with 207 drugs offences at our schools in the past five years, and a further 149 instances in which pupils were found in possession of weapons. The figures were revealed following an FOI to police forces across the country revealing the scale of crimes relating to schools. More here.

7.45am Todd Fitzgerald Jason Manford reveals reason for cancelled Middleton gig Jason Manford has revealed why he was forced to pull out of a show at Middleton Arena just two hours before he was due on stage. Jason Manford The comedian was due to perform to a crowd of hundreds of fans during a sold out gig at the venue on Thursday night. But a spokeswoman for the Salford-born comic apologised to fans after he was forced to cancel the performance. He has now told fans his daughter suffered a head injury at a dance class. We’ll have the full story on this soon.

7.20am Todd Fitzgerald ...and the back page Here’s the back page of today’s M.E.N. Stories featured include Samuel Luckhurt’s report on United target Antoine Griezmann and Rob Pollard’s piece on new City signing Leroy Sane.

7.19am Todd Fitzgerald Front page of today's Manchester Evening News Here’s the front page of today’s M.E.N.

7.12am Todd Fitzgerald Light troubles on the East Lancs Be wary, folks...

7.10am Todd Fitzgerald Lowry Outlet set for new name...and it's not gone down well The Lowry Outlet mall at MediaCityUK is set for a rebrand and will no longer bear the name of the 20th century painter. Peel bosses, who bought the shopping centre for £70m in 2012, have announced it will be now been known as ‘Lifestyle Outlet Manchester’ - despite the fact it is in Salford. They say they want to ‘redefine’ the shopping centre, opposite the theatre also named after L.S. Lowry, and challenge its ‘soullessness’. More here.

7am Todd Fitzgerald 10-year anniversary of killing of Jessie James The mother of tragic Jessie James has made a heartfelt plea for vital information to finally bring her son’s killer to justice. Barbara Reid is appealing for witnesses to the death of her son Jessie James to come forward On the 10th anniversary of his murder, Barbara Reid urged witnesses to have the courage to come forward and finally give her family peace. Her son Jessie, a 15-year-old schoolboy, was cycling through Broadfield Park in Moss Side with friends at about 1am on September 9, 2006, when a gunman who had been hiding in bushes shot him four times with a powerful semi-automatic handgun. He died in the park. His shocking murder helped secure Moss Side’s unwanted reputation for gun violence, although there hasn’t been another fatal shooting there since. In a powerful video message, Barbara urged those in the Moss Side community who have remained silent for a decade to have the courage to come forward. More here.

6.53am Todd Fitzgerald 'Stabbing' in Openshaw Police were at the scene of a reported stabbing in Openshaw last night. Tom Duffield Police at the scene in Openshaw Witnesses described police activity in the Ashton Old Road area and seeing a male, believed to be a teenager, covered in blood in the middle of the road just after 9pm on Thursday. Residents in the area reported how police ordered them to remain indoors due to an incident. Pictures taken from the scene show Ashton Old Road was blocked by police near with Victoria Street close to New Smithfield Market. And one passing motorist told the M.E.N. he found the man bleeding heavily in the middle of the busy road. We’ll get an update from Greater Manchester Police in this incident soon. In the meantime, here’s what we know.

6.45am Todd Fitzgerald Murder investigation after baby dies of 'multiple injuries' Police have launched a murder investigation after an eight month-old child died from ‘multiple injuries’. Police at the scene Police and paramedics were called to a home in Rochdale on Tuesday morning after receiving concerned calls about the welfare of a child. Officers found an eight-month baby boy with serious injuries inside the property. The child was raced to hospital but, despite the efforts of doctors, died on Thursday. Police have arrested a 25-year-old man on suspicion of murder and causing or allowing the death of a child. A 24-year-old woman has also been arrested on suspicion of causing or allowing the death of a child. You can read the full story here. We’ll have the latest information on this tragic incident soon."