Jet2 plane forced to land again after suffering landing gear problem twice in two days	"The plane pictured over St Helens with its gear down

A plane which circled over Greater Manchester for 90 minutes because of a technical fault has done exactly the same thing just two days later.

Jet2 LS875 from Manchester to Faro entered a holding pattern a few minutes after departure on Friday morning.

It left at 8.39am, heading south from Manchester Airport towards Cheshire, but turned north towards Wigan and Merseyside before circling for around 30 minutes.

It returned to the airport after flying towards Bolton and turning south over Rochdale.

The plane was pictured with its landing gear down by a number of onlookers.

Passengers were back on the tarmac by 9.41am and put straight on another plane.

The plane had to circle over the north west to burn fuel before landing

The Boeing 757-200 - registration G-LSAG - is the same plane that circled around Manchester Airport on Wednesday after an issue with the landing gear.

Jet2 flight LS819 left Manchester for Rhodes at 10.26am and was due to land at the Greek island for 4.35pm.

But the aircraft reportedly experienced an issue with the landing gear and was placed in a holding pattern at 8,000ft.

The Boeing 757-200 continued to circle the airport for an hour and a half burning fuel until it was light enough to land.

It eventually made it to the runway just before 12.25pm after landing safely.

Flight tracking data showed the plane was flown in a circle over Stockport, Manchester and Trafford on Thursday evening.

Jim Gormley The plane over Stockport

It is thought the 17-minute flight was to test whether repairs to the landing gear had been successful.

A Jet2 spokeswoman refused to comment on whether the plane returned to Manchester Airport because of the same technical issue as on Wednesday.

She said: “Our Jet2.com flight LS875 from Manchester to Faro has been diverted back to base as a precautionary measure.

“The aircraft landed safely, without incident, and passengers will be transferred onto a replacement aircraft.

“We would like to apologise to our customers for this delay.”"